1188 Section 106.11 Application: Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance Section 106.11 Application: Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/04/29/2024-07915/nondiscrimination-on-the-basis-of-sex-in-education-programs-or-activities-receiving-federal Department of Education U.S. regulations, executive orders, and agency policies Enacted 2024-08-01 00:00:00 2024-04-29 00:00:00 False False Declines to expand examples of conduct under sex-based harassment regulations to include AI technologies, but reinforces responsibility for conduct within a recipient's disciplinary authority, including off-campus and online activities. Clarifies Title IX obligations for addressing hostile environments linked to education programs. Requires recipients to address sex-based harassment within their education programs or activities, including off-campus and remote settings, aligning with recent court decisions.

Clarifies that institutions are responsible for discrimination within contexts they control, such as AI technologies used in educational settings.

Acknowledges requests for examples involving AI and other specific circumstances but declines to provide additional examples or exhaustive lists.

Confirms obligations for conduct during institution-sponsored events, online classes, and use of digital platforms, including AI technologies.

Deletes references to sex-based harassment occurring outside the U.S. but maintains the obligation to address contributing conduct external to the program or activity. E. Application
1. Section 106.11 Application
Obligation To Address Conduct Occurring Under a Recipient's Education Program or Activity
Comments: Many commenters expressed overall support for proposed § 106.11, including because it would remove many geographical limitations on a recipient's responsibilities under Title IX and require a recipient to address sex-based harassment in its education program or activity broadly—on a recipient's grounds, during school activities off campus, and under a recipient's disciplinary authority; would be consistent with recent court decisions recognizing that a recipient must respond to sex-based harassment in off-campus settings; would better reflect where sex-based harassment occurs given that students live, learn, and participate in education programs off campus and in remote settings; and would promote uniformity and consistency of Federal laws because it would be more consistent with Title VII. Some commenters also highlighted student populations more likely to live off campus who would benefit from proposed § 106.11, including graduate, vocational, and community college students; low-income students, students of color, former foster youth, and LGBTQI+ students; student athletes; and students who attend training and workforce development programs. Other commenters supported proposed § 106.11 because it would close a gap in the 2020 amendments that the commenters asserted created the potential for students to engage in off-campus sex-based harassment to avoid disciplinary consequences., Some commenters opposed proposed § 106.11 and asked that the Department retain the 2020 amendments because they have been upheld by multiple courts. Some commenters asserted that proposed § 106.11 would contradict the spirit and original intent of Title IX and exceed the Department's authority. Other commenters opposed proposed § 106.11 because they believed it would be inconsistent with Supreme Court case law limiting private damages liability under Title IX to “circumstances wherein the recipient exercises substantial control over both the harasser and the context in which the known harassment occurs,” citing Davis, 526 U.S. at 645. One commenter stated that proposed § 106.11 would fail under the major questions doctrine because the commenter felt it is far outside the authority previously asserted by the Department, and Congress has attempted but failed to pass legislation similar to proposed § 106.11—H.R. 5396 (“Title IX Take Responsibility Act of 2021”). 
Some commenters asked the Department to include additional examples of conduct occurring under a recipient's program or activity in § 106.11, including AI technologies used by a recipient in, for example, grading of tests or admissions programs, and any gender bias within these technologies and conduct that impacts a recipient's education and workplace environments, as well as off-campus locations related to a recipient or a recipient-sponsored event or organization, including fraternity and sorority houses, honors housing, apartments contracted by third-party housing companies but affiliated with a university, and other organizational meeting places. Another commenter asked the Department to provide guidance on whether § 106.11 would include conduct that occurs during institution-sponsored field trips or outings; conduct that occurs during remote learning in a parent's home; and conduct that occurs in recipient-owned buildings or during recipient-recognized student-run activities. Some commenters asked the Department to clarify what would constitute “off campus” and specifically what authority and obligations a recipient would have off campus., Discussion: The Department acknowledges commenters' support for § 106.11 and agrees with commenters who expressed that § 106.11 aligns with the purpose and intent of Title IX, including the meaning of “under any education program or activity” in the Title IX statute.
The Department recognizes that some commenters would prefer the Department maintain the existing language in § 106.44(a) of the 2020 amendments. The final regulations clarify and more completely describe all of the circumstances in which Title IX applies. This includes conduct that occurs in a building owned or controlled by a student organizati